The case of the 1MDB 

One of the most well-known (2015) and prominent cases of corruption within Malaysia and globally is that involving the former Prime Minister of Malaysia, Najib Razak, known as the 1 Malaysia Development Fund Bhd (1MDB). This corruption case involved the embezzlement of billions of US dollars, facilitated by the false declaration by officials. This included money laundering from accounts as well as bribery and gains from bond pricing. Although implications are mainly placed on Malaysia’s businessmen and government officials, others from the UAE and Saudi Arabia have been implicated in the scandal. 

The 1MDB was set up in 2009, initially launched at the Terengganu Investment Authority (TIA). It developed as a network of joint ventures between Aarbar Investments PJSC and Petro Saudi International. Corrupt practices began with embezzlement, involving the misappropriation of funds through borrowing, bonds and bank loans. It is estimated that more than US$ 6.5 billion f lowed through the 1MDB, financing the spending of corrupt officials and their associates. In addition, bribes were offered as a means to allow and arrange bond issues, as well as for the management of accounts which facilitated in embezzlement. 

The key perpetrators of the bribery were Goldman Sachs, later leading to the sentencing of their Southeast Asia Chairman, Tim Leissner. In addition to embezzlement and bribery, money laundering was a component of the 1MDB scandal, which involved receiving and retaining money from sources and disguising or failing to investigate its origins. This violated the anti-money laundering laws within Malaysia, with banks acting as intermediaries and beneficiaries which is in breach of their anti-money laundering compliance requirements. In addition, false declaration and bond mispricing between 2009 and 2014 were forms of corruption which took place within this scandal, including the false declaration of 1MDB funds to banks in Malaysia. Recipients of these false declarations included Bank Negara (Malaysian Central Bank). 

Corruption was able to take place due to the Malaysian Government covering up the 1MDB scandal, through the removal of the officials and ministers who threatened to bring to light to corruption and evidence to support it. Moreover, documents and computer files were withheld from investigators, and those from the Malaysian AntiCorruption Commissions (MACC) were encouraged to alter their findings or abandon investigations, illustrating that corruption extended heavily towards government bodies which aimed to prevent corruption in the first place. 

Investigations the 1MDB scandal in 2015 brought to light several reasons why such an extensive case of corruption and bribery was able to take place. It was found that systems of governance in place were defective, leading to weak control over spending, lending and investment within 1MDB. This includes decisions made outside the board of directors and the board being fed false and inaccurate information, in turn confirming that the Companies Act of 1965 of the Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance was not in compliance. Political control further crushed attempts to deal with the corruption, which included the removal of the Attorney General from office and the harassment of the MACC officers. In addition, within Malaysian banks, and evidently internationally, there were weak internal rules against money laundering which enabled such flows of money. Due to the fact that Najib was both Prime Minister and Chairman of the 1MDB Advisory Board, there was a strong lack of political will as there was no one above him to address the corruption taking place. Further to this, the mindset within Malaysia, both in the government and private sector, in which there is a belief that corruption leads to economic gains, led to engagement in such practices considered as acceptable. 

As a result of the scandal, there were two key implications: 
• The Malaysian government were forced to pay US$1.66 billion to debt servicing payments; and 
• There was significant erosion of trust within the public, particularly concerning politicians and government officials.

