1) The case of the 1MDB 

One of the most well-known (2015) and prominent cases of corruption within Malaysia and globally is that involving the former Prime Minister of Malaysia, Najib Razak, known as the 1 Malaysia Development Fund Bhd (1MDB). This corruption case involved the embezzlement of billions of US dollars, facilitated by the false declaration by officials. This included money laundering from accounts as well as bribery and gains from bond pricing. Although implications are mainly placed on Malaysia’s businessmen and government officials, others from the UAE and Saudi Arabia have been implicated in the scandal. 

The 1MDB was set up in 2009, initially launched at the Terengganu Investment Authority (TIA). It developed as a network of joint ventures between Aarbar Investments PJSC and Petro Saudi International. Corrupt practices began with embezzlement, involving the misappropriation of funds through borrowing, bonds and bank loans. It is estimated that more than US$ 6.5 billion f lowed through the 1MDB, financing the spending of corrupt officials and their associates. In addition, bribes were offered as a means to allow and arrange bond issues, as well as for the management of accounts which facilitated in embezzlement. 

The key perpetrators of the bribery were Goldman Sachs, later leading to the sentencing of their Southeast Asia Chairman, Tim Leissner. In addition to embezzlement and bribery, money laundering was a component of the 1MDB scandal, which involved receiving and retaining money from sources and disguising or failing to investigate its origins. This violated the anti-money laundering laws within Malaysia, with banks acting as intermediaries and beneficiaries which is in breach of their anti-money laundering compliance requirements. In addition, false declaration and bond mispricing between 2009 and 2014 were forms of corruption which took place within this scandal, including the false declaration of 1MDB funds to banks in Malaysia. Recipients of these false declarations included Bank Negara (Malaysian Central Bank). 

Corruption was able to take place due to the Malaysian Government covering up the 1MDB scandal, through the removal of the officials and ministers who threatened to bring to light to corruption and evidence to support it. Moreover, documents and computer files were withheld from investigators, and those from the Malaysian AntiCorruption Commissions (MACC) were encouraged to alter their findings or abandon investigations, illustrating that corruption extended heavily towards government bodies which aimed to prevent corruption in the first place. 

Investigations the 1MDB scandal in 2015 brought to light several reasons why such an extensive case of corruption and bribery was able to take place. It was found that systems of governance in place were defective, leading to weak control over spending, lending and investment within 1MDB. This includes decisions made outside the board of directors and the board being fed false and inaccurate information, in turn confirming that the Companies Act of 1965 of the Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance was not in compliance. Political control further crushed attempts to deal with the corruption, which included the removal of the Attorney General from office and the harassment of the MACC officers. In addition, within Malaysian banks, and evidently internationally, there were weak internal rules against money laundering which enabled such flows of money. Due to the fact that Najib was both Prime Minister and Chairman of the 1MDB Advisory Board, there was a strong lack of political will as there was no one above him to address the corruption taking place. Further to this, the mindset within Malaysia, both in the government and private sector, in which there is a belief that corruption leads to economic gains, led to engagement in such practices considered as acceptable. 

As a result of the scandal, there were two key implications: 
• The Malaysian government were forced to pay US$1.66 billion to debt servicing payments; and 
• There was significant erosion of trust within the public, particularly concerning politicians and government officials.


2) The case of the Sabah Water Department (2010) 

Prior to the previous case, the largest corruption scandal in Malaysia was considered to be the Sabah State Water Corruption scandal. This case involved the siphoning of RM3.3B worth of federal allocations for state rural water projects from 2010 onwards to top department officials. This is the equivalent of over 759 million $USD. 

The case arose due to complaints that water development project contracts were being distributed unfairly. The two suspects who were investigated included the Director of the Water Department and the Deputy Director. It is estimated that these two civil servants amassed a sum of almost RM115 million (24 million $USD) due to their illicit activities. Such sums of money amassed due to the water department officials abusing their power to award contracts to 38 companies which were owned by their families or corrupt business officials. 

As a result, an investigation was carried out by the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC), who subsequently confiscated cash, luxury cars, jewellery and watches amounting to RM 114.5M. Prior to the previous 1MDM corruption case, it was considered to be the largest amount of money confiscated by the MACC. Investigations revealed that there were a number of factors which led to on-going corruption taking place. This included the lack of systematic monitoring procedures which otherwise should have been in place to vet projects and irregular transactions. As a result, it led to the misappropriation of public funds, resulting in a weakened trust by the public of governance. 


3) The case of the Port Klang Free Zone (PKFZ) 

The Port Klang Free Zone (PKFZ) was a free trade zone at Malaysia largest port. Implemented in 2008, the project was designed to act as a hub for businesses to connect from over 120 countries due to its logistical location which allowed for the efficient execution of business transactions. 

A corruption case arose regarding Port Klang when it became evident that there were cost overruns of RM 3.5 billion, which was almost double the initial costs of RM 1.845 billion. There were reports that the Transport Minister at the time, Chan Kong Choy, had issued support for bonds which amounted to RM 3.7 billion without the government’s approval. As such, Pricewaterhouse Coopers was asked to conduct an audit to investigate the financial irregularities. However, the audit in fact found that the total cost amounted to RM 12.5 billion (almost 3 billion $USD), far higher than the discrepancies which were initially suspected. After these findings, an investigation was carried out by the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) and the police, leading to a number of people charged of misconduct, including involvement with administering and f inancing the PKFZ. Despite the fact that the MACC was successful in carrying out an investigation, it has been widely dubbed at the scandal with no culprit, undermining the efforts and effectiveness of the institution in tackling corruption. 


4) The immigration department migrant scandal 

This scandal occurred in 2016, involving the Malaysian Immigration Department, which is considered to have been part of long-standing small-scale corruption such as bribery. An internal probe revealed several forms of corruption, including the tampering of the online system within the immigration department, which in turn allowed for the access of cash and the movement of individuals which was not in line with immigration rules. Not only was this a form of corruption, but it additionally aided in terrorist activities, as it is suggested that over 130 Malaysians were thought to have travelled to Syria and Iraq to fight with ISIS as a result of misconduct. It led to a number of arrests and charges for human trafficking and allowed the illegal movement of migrants in and out of the country. 

